around the world, people everywhere are looking for a savior.
They long for a savior who can rescue them from disease,
from hunger, from poverty, from crime, from war, even from death.
Well, in the midst of so many calamities and so many problems,
why are Jehovah's people rejoicing?
Because our magnificent, our almighty God, Jehovah, is that savior.
We have him. And as a result, we feel joy in our hearts.
The scriptures describe Jehovah as being a grand savior.
We know it is a part of his personality, his identity,
to want to rescue and save his faithful servants.
Well, knowing that Jehovah wants to save us, how should it make us feel?
Let's open our Bibles and look at this thought.
In the book of Psalms, Psalm 9 and verse 14,
it says, so that I may declare your praiseworthy deeds
in the gates of the daughter of Zion and rejoice in your act of salvation.
So now, how should we feel about Jehovah's ability to save us,
about his acts of salvation?
Well, the Psalmist said we want to rejoice in Jehovah's ability to save
and really brothers, when we have a faith, a confidence,
that Jehovah wants to save us, that he has the ability to save us,
and that he has ways and means to save us,
this truly is a reason for us to rejoice.
If we have that faith, if we have that confidence,
we are going to be able to face the future with real confidence,
knowing that whatever trial may come our way, we have our Savior.
But now, brothers, to reassure us, to strengthen our confidence,
that Jehovah really is our Savior, it helps us to look to the past,
to Bible times, to see how Jehovah rescued and saved his people
both as a nation, but also as individuals.
Now, let's look rapidly at three different examples from the Scriptures,
where Jehovah saved his people as a nation.
Now, here's the first one. It's from Exodus chapter 14.
Now, you'll remember here that the nation of Israel was right there
at the Red Sea with Pharaoh's armies all around.
Well, it looked hopeless, but what did Jehovah do?
He opened up that Red Sea right in front of his people
and allowed them to walk through on dry land.
What a salvation that was.
And then, what about in the time of Jehoshaphat and the nation of Judah?
Do you remember when all those armies of the opposing nations
came and surrounded them again?
Well, now, Jehoshaphat in 2 Chronicles 20, he looked to Jehovah
and he said, Jehovah, we just, we don't know what to do.
But our eyes are toward you.
Well, what did Jehovah do? He said, take your position, stand still,
and see the salvation of Jehovah.
Well, that's what they did. They went out, they took their position,
and without them having to fight it all,
Jehovah threw those other armies into confusion,
and they all wiped each other out, without the nation of Judah having to do a thing.
Jehovah saved his people.
And as a third example, what about Hezekiah?
Now, we've had this amazing Bible drama several years ago
at our regional convention where we saw Hezekiah look to Jehovah
for his salvation and what happened?
Well, Jehovah sent one angel, wiped out 185,000 men in one night.
Well, now, what's the point, brothers?
It's obvious from our review of the Scriptures that Jehovah
is a savior of his people as a group, as a nation.
We've seen it over and over again in the Scriptures.
But what about as individuals?
Well, now, here's a nice example of what the Bible says here in Psalm 34.
Let's read it first before we look at the example.
It's Psalm 34 and verse 18.
Psalm 34, verse 18.
It says, Jehovah is close to the brokenhearted.
He saves those who are crushed in spirit.
Many are the hardships of the righteous one,
but what does it say here? Notice, brothers?
But Jehovah rescues him from them all.
So what's the point? See, Jehovah rescues the righteous one,
not just the righteous nation, but the righteous one.
Now, here's our example.
Think about the faithful woman Hannah.
Now, you remember her situation.
Hannah was barren.
She was constantly being harassed and tormented
by her husband's other wife, Penina.
And so she went to the temple and she poured out her heart to Jehovah.
Will you look at this with me? Let's go to first Samuel, chapter 1.
First Samuel, chapter 1.
And you see here, you see here that in verse 10,
it says that Hannah was extremely bitter.
And she began to pray to Jehovah and to weep uncontrollably.
Well, this faithful servant of God just poured out her heart,
begged Jehovah for his help, but she had a very specific request.
You see, verse 11, she asked Jehovah for a child, a male child.
And she told Jehovah, if she would get this child,
she would dedicate him to the service of God.
Well, what happened? You see, look down here at verse 18.
Once Hannah had expressed this prayer to Jehovah,
in effect, she just had thrown her burden onto him.
Look at what verse 18 says.
Her face was no longer downcast.
Well, do you remember at the beginning, she was extremely bitter.
Now it says her face was no longer downcast.
What does it mean? Well, Jehovah was already giving her the strength
to be able to endure her situation.
But it didn't end there because now look at verse 20.
Within a year, it says, Hannah became pregnant.
So Jehovah gave her the request of her heart.
Well, can you imagine how Hannah must have felt?
If you look over at chapter 2 and verse 1, look what she says.
My heart rejoices in Jehovah.
My horn is exalted by Jehovah.
My mouth is opened wide against my enemies,
for I rejoice in your acts of salvation.
Well now, obviously, Hannah rejoiced that Jehovah had become her savior
and that she had experienced his acts of salvation.
What's the point, brothers? What's the point?
Well, as individuals, we can pray to Jehovah with our specific distresses,
with our specific requests and concerns.
We know that Jehovah honors those who honor him.
And we know all of us have experienced when we feel
that Jehovah has heard our prayer,
and he is in some way acted in our behalf.
But now let's look at another example.
Here it's Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
Now, you remember those three faithful Hebrews were there
and the King Nebuchadnezzar had erected this golden image
and he said everyone had to bow down to it
or they would be thrown into the fiery furnace.
Well, what did Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego do?
They absolutely refused to obey that order.
They had to listen to Jehovah.
Well, those men were tied up just as Nebuchadnezzar had warned.
They were tied up and they were thrown into that fiery furnace.
But now dear brothers, I want you to think about this.
How do you imagine this scene in your mind?
Do you think that as they were going into the fiery furnace
they were all in a panic and they were regretting their decision?
Oh, I'm so sorry that I didn't bow down to the image?
Absolutely not.
Just look at what these men said.
Look at Daniel, chapter three.
Daniel, chapter three.
Let's look at verse 16 here.
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered the king.
Oh, Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
If it must be, our God whom we serve is able to rescue us
from the burning fiery furnace and to rescue us from your hand.
But even if he does not let it be known to you, O King,
that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold
that you have set up.
Well now, when you hear those words,
is there any regret there?
Is there any weakness?
Is there any panic?
No.
Even though they were facing death.
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego faced it with courage.
They faced it with resolve.
They faced it with dignity.
Well, how they must have rejoiced when, after being rescued,
even Nebuchadnezzar himself had to praise Jehovah
for the way he had rescued his servants.
One of our brothers, what's the point of this review?
Obviously, in Bible times, Jehovah God has saved his people
both as a nation and as individuals.
And we know that Jehovah delights to do this
and that it is a cause for rejoicing
when Jehovah's servants experience his salvation.
But now, here's the question.
We know Jehovah delights to rescue us, to save us.
We know he's moved to do so by his loyal love.
But what does it really mean?
Does it mean today that when any sort of trial comes our way
that Jehovah is just going to rush in,
he's just going to intervene and rescue us every time?
No, it does not.
It does not mean that.
Now, why?
If Jehovah loves us and he has the power, why is it
that he isn't rescuing us from every situation?
Well, do you remember what Satan said to Jehovah about Job
in Job chapter 1?
See, Satan said, you've put a hedge around Job.
You've blessed everything he does.
You haven't allowed any calamity to come to him.
The only reason he serves you is just because of selfish reasons.
He doesn't really love you.
He just worships you for what he can get from you.
You see, that same charge could be made about any of us.
If Jehovah just rescued us from everything,
so what will Jehovah do?
Well, when we're facing trials, it's true,
in some circumstances, Jehovah may remove the trial.
But in many other situations,
Jehovah may strengthen us so that we'll be able to review the trial.
Excuse me, endure the trial.
Either way, when we feel,
when we experience that Jehovah is acting on our behalf,
how does it make us feel?
We truly, truly rejoice.
You know, brothers, this is not theory.
This very week, I lost my own father in death.
My father was 90 years old.
He had served Jehovah faithfully for 63 years.
Now, brothers, this is a trial that every single one of us experience
as God's people.
But some of you like me,
we've experienced the death of a loved one
during this coronavirus pandemic.
I'll tell you, it's not an easy situation.
But what can we say?
Well, I can say myself,
we have felt the love of Jehovah
in all of the emails,
in all of the phone calls,
in all the different ways brothers and sisters have found
to provide the support that we need.
That's been true, in my case.
I know it's been true for all of you
who've had the same or very similar experience at this difficult time.
Jehovah is giving us what we need
so that we can continue on to serve him faithfully.
And so, when some big trial comes your way, ask yourself,
am I confident that Jehovah's loyal love
is going to move him to act on my behalf?
Are his acts of salvation going to be manifest for me
so that I am going to feel them myself?
And then, does that confident
that Jehovah is going to intervene,
that he is going to help us cause us to rejoice
and be happy in the knowledge that our God is with us?
When I'm in the following video,
I want you to take notice of this beautiful experience
of a dear sister who did not have the trial removed from her,
but just notice how Jehovah has strengthened her
to be able to endure.
I was born in Malawi in 1962.
I lost my eyesight at two years of age
because of an eye disease.
We have to rely on the reins for the food we eat
and sell as it is our only source of income.
I also look after both my parents.
My father is 99 years old
and my mother is 92 years old.
Hoverty is very time consuming.
There are a lot of household chores to do
to keep things clean and neat,
like fetching water for our daily needs.
In the evening, after we've eaten,
this is the time for reading.
When I was young,
father took the lead in our family worship,
which he still does,
but now, because of his failing eyesight,
I read to them.
I read with my fingers,
so night time is no problem.
My fingers are my eyes.
One scripture that really touches my heart
is James 5.11, which says,
Look, we consider happy those who have endured.
Job endured his trials,
and at the end, he saw all the good that Jehovah
had blessed him with.
This convinces me that Jehovah who act in the near future,
blessing us with all the things we are lacking
for filling all his promises.
And so, I'm happy to endure.
God's kingdom and His sovereignty are first in my life.
It is only God's kingdom that will solve all these problems.
I feel privileged that I've been able
to serve as a regular pioneer for 36 years now,
and I've been blessed to help 64 persons to know Jehovah.
I'm so happy with songs 76.
I don't see myself as poor.
I have the Bible and many different publications
in Jehovah Braille.
We have the congregation,
the ministry, and our brothers and sisters.
All these things make me very happy.
We are not worried about our current situation,
because we are spiritually rich.
It wasn't that amazing to see that beautiful experience
of our sister.
Now, Jehovah hasn't taken away her trial.
She's still blind.
She still has a very limited means.
But look how Jehovah has blessed her.
Look how she's able to help so many people
to come to know about Jehovah.
How wonderful.
But now, let's look at a second video.
Now we're going to watch a video where Jehovah really did step in
and remove a trial from our dear brother
who is in a refugee camp.
Let's watch.
Because of the civil war,
we had to take refuge in a safer part of the country.
When we arrived, soldiers took us to internment camps
to hold us until they could confirm our identities.
In the camps, we lived in tents
and it was unbearably hot in them.
It was a struggle even to get water.
We needed to wait in a queue for four to five hours every day.
During the war, our eldest son was killed.
It was a big loss for our family.
All we could do to cope was pray to Jehovah
and find comfort in the Bible.
One day, the brothers from the Relief Committee came
and informed us that a regional convention would be held.
They had spoken to the camp officials requesting permission for us to go.
For four days, morning and evening,
we went to the officials to ask for permission.
But they would not tell us if we would be released for the convention.
Suddenly, when afternoon, much to our surprise,
we were approved to leave the camp for five days.
At that time, we had been in the internment camp for months.
We had not been allowed to go anywhere.
We were so happy that we got the permission to attend the convention.
We never expected it.
At the time, we had some clothes,
but we had nothing for the three-day convention.
However, the brothers outside the camp helped us enormously.
They were with us cared for all our needs,
so we could be ready for the convention.
We still wondered where we were going to stay
and how we would get our recommendations.
However, when we arrived,
the brothers hugged us and warmly welcomed us.
We were really encouraged.
Even though we faced many challenges and difficulties in the internment camp,
that convention was like a nourishing meal for us.
It was a real joy eating at Jehu was stable.
We can never forget those moments.
After the convention,
the brother from the governing body gave a special talk
from the internment camps that are really strengthened us.
The convention helped us to be courageous,
especially after we returned to the camp.
Although we faced many losses,
the convention not only gave us comfort,
but also helped us to face the challenges ahead.
Now my younger son and I are serving as ministerial servants,
and my wife has been serving as a regular pioneer for the past 17 years.
She continued pioneering even while we were in the internment camp.
We realized that Jehu was always there,
caring for us and sustaining us continuously.
So how wonderful that our amazing God Jehova
helped this dear brother and his family
so that they would be able to attend the convention.
Well, dear brothers, what have we seen thus far in this talk?
We've been able to see that in the past in Bible times,
Jehova was the savior of his people.
And in our modern times, right now we see how Jehova is strengthening us
and acting on our behalf so that we can continue to serve him faithfully.
But now what about the very near future?
What can we say about that?
Well, we know that these last days are very soon going to lead in to the great tribulation.
As Jesus said at Matthew 24-21,
this is going to be a great tribulation such as has not occurred
since the world's beginning until now, nor will occur again.
After the destruction of Babylon the Great
and before the outbreak of Armageddon, what is going to happen?
Gogg of Maygog, this coalition of nations
is going to lead an all-out attack on Jehova's servants.
Well now, knowing that that attack is coming closer and closer every day,
how should we be feeling? Should it make us feel just completely filled with anxiety?
Should we be in terror of those events that are coming?
Not at all.
Please read with me what Jesus said here in Revelation 2.
Now in Revelation 2 in verse 10,
Jesus is speaking to anointed Christians in the congregation of Smyrna.
Now notice what he says to them.
Do not be afraid of the things that you are about to suffer.
Look, the devil will keep on throwing some of you into prison
so that you may be fully put to the test
and you will have tribulation for 10 days,
prove yourself faithful even to death
and I will give you the crown of life.
Now what do we discern from these words of Jesus?
Well first of all, those who die faithfully
and keep their integrity are guaranteed
to have salvation from Jehova.
But there's something else that we can discern from these words.
It tells us that during these last days,
some of Jehova's servants are going to experience death.
In our modern history already,
we know our brothers have been thrown into prison,
have been tortured and yes,
some have even been put to death
because of their integrity.
In South Korea alone,
over a period of some 70 years,
19,352 of our brothers were in prison
and five of those brothers were actually put to death
because of their faith.
Well what can we say about those brothers in South Korea?
Those that died in Nazi Germany
and those that died in Eritrea
and those that died during the Soviet Union
because of their faith?
We know that their salvation is completely assured.
They are completely safe in the safest place in the universe,
the memory of our grand god Jehova.
Well then, what about our brothers
who are experiencing persecution right now?
We know that some of our brothers
are watching this program right now in countries
where our work is banned or under very, very severe restriction.
What can we say about those dear brothers and sisters?
Well let's read together this encouraging thought.
In Psalm 67,
Psalm 67 and verse 1,
it says,
God will show us favor and bless us.
He will make his face shine upon us
so that your way may be known throughout the earth
your acts of salvation among all the nations.
What's the point?
You see Jehova is doing what verse 1 says.
He's showing his favor and he's blessing his people
in these countries where the work is under ban.
And as a result,
we are able to see Jehova's acts of salvation for his people.
Well now there are so many examples of this.
I wish we had another hour to be able to tell you all of them.
But I'd like to just share one experience that is similar
to many, many more that we have received.
It comes from Russia.
One of our sisters was there in the prison in Russia.
Two of the female prisoners who were in the cell with her
were imprisoned for selling drugs.
Now one day these two prisoners began singing songs
about criminal life.
Now the sister didn't understand the language,
but she just knew that the thoughts and the ideas
and these songs were immoral and foul
and she just didn't want to be in that environment.
So she prayed to Jehova to help her.
Well suddenly one of the women began singing song number 120
from our former song book.
Well the sister was shocked.
How do you know this song she asked?
Then they all sang the song together.
It turned out that this woman had learned the song
from her mother who had previously studied the Bible
of Jehovah's Witnesses and had memorized the song.
Our sister felt the loving hand of Jehovah
in responding to her prayer so quickly.
Oh brothers, it's a wonderful experience,
but there are so many similar experiences
where Jehovah has shown his hand on behalf of his people
in small ways and sometimes in big ways.
But let's look at one other experience.
There are many examples of where our brothers
in the courtroom during their own trials
have made statements that are similar
to what Shadrach Meshach and Abednego said to Nebuchadnezzar.
I just want to give you one example.
This is the statement from brother Sergei Skrinikov
that he gave in the courtroom at his own hearing.
Here's a small excerpt.
Let us take a look into the future.
If for another 10 years or so the government keeps putting
Jehovah's Witnesses into prisons and correctional colonies
there will be about 200 of them in every prison.
Imagine four congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses
in one prison.
The prison administrators will be begging the Ministry of Justice
to set Jehovah's Witnesses free.
What do you imagine the majority of the witnesses
will be praying for?
Lord, don't soften the heart of the government.
Don't let them set me free.
I have so many Bible students
and sincere people to talk to.
Isn't that wonderful?
Just hear the confidence in his voice.
But then look, look how he ended his statement to the court.
Here's what he said.
God is one and the same,
whether we are free or in prison.
Therefore, we are not abandoned.
He is with us everywhere as long as we stay faithful to him.
Hebrews 136 assures me,
Jehovah is my helper.
I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?
Jehovah God himself will help me.
Of whom should I be afraid?
Well, Brother Skrinikov, this very humble brother
made this powerful statement in the courtroom.
What does it show us?
Obviously, Jehovah is strengthening his people.
He's giving them the power, the courage that they need
to be so bold and so frank,
even before these powerful authorities.
Well, what do we expect in the very near future?
This all-out attack of God of May,
God will come against God's people.
But when it begins, what is Jehovah going to do?
Well, let me read to you just an excerpt
from our pure worship book
that just beautifully expresses what we can expect to see.
Before they are destroyed,
our enemies will see the sign of the Son of Man
likely a supernatural manifestation of the power
of Jehovah and Jesus.
The opposers will see things that cause them extreme anxiety.
As Jesus foretold, people will become faint out of fear
and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth
to their horror.
They will realize that they miscalculated
when they attacked Jehovah's people.
They will be forced to know the creator in his role
as military commander, Jehovah of armies.
Jehovah will no doubt unleash heavenly armies
and natural forces in such a way that he protects his loyal servants
but eliminates his enemies.
What a powerful description.
It just reminds me of our video,
a couple of years ago at a regional convention
where we saw those forces coming against God's people
and then what did we see?
Well, suddenly from the heavens,
here is Jesus Christ, the 144,000
and all those heavenly armies riding into battle.
And you remember Jesus just pulls back that bow
and lets that arrow go
and all of those enemies are gone forever.
Brothers and sisters, don't you just long
for the day when you will see those things
with your own eyes?
What a wonderful time.
That will be when we experience the salvation of Jehovah.
Well, what can we say?
As we have discussed this wonderful topic of Jehovah
as our grand savior?
Well, when we look to the future,
we really can have the confidence
of what Isaiah chapter 12 and verse 2 says.
Let's read it.
Isaiah chapter 12.
And verse 2.
It says, look, God is my salvation.
I will trust and feel no dread
for Jehovah is my strength and my might
and he has become my salvation.
Well, just as Isaiah said,
we have no reason to fear,
we have no reason to dread
if we have our confidence in our God Jehovah.
Now, whether we face death with dignity
during these last days
or we experience miraculous deliverance
at the great tribulation,
either way, what can we say?
We know that we will have the same outcome.
We will all experience the salvation
that comes from our God, Jehovah,
because what is the assurance
that Isaiah 54 and verse 17 gives us?
No weapon formed against you
will have any success.
Well, brothers, if we have that confidence
that Jehovah truly is our grand savior,
then no matter what calamity,
no matter what terror,
no matter what trial may come upon us now
or in the future,
we will be able to continue to rejoice
in Jehovah's acts of salvation.